hi I'm using pastel matte paper
specifically to show you how water
resistant is so you can put some
pastelon and then instead of maybe using
my finger to blend the colors I can do
some under painting using a brush
blending it that way
so I put the nice sort of purpley gray
color on slightly paler color put a
brown and some other colors yellow and
some white and I'll just add some water
to that with my brush so the pasta matte
paper doesn't absorb the pastel totally
the water doesn't just soak right the
way through it so you can move past all
around a little bit you'll see that when
I put the water on it seems to darken it
and but it will dry lighter and then
when that's dried I can put some more
pastel work on so I'll let that dry and
come back to that in a minute now it's
dry we can add more layers of pastel and
the pastel takes very easily you can
also see how the surface of the past on
that paper hasn't buckled or cockles so
it stayed nice and flat for what I want
to do so we'll just put a bit of shading
on this
blending with you finger if you want or
with the pastel shape or even with a
brush but bear in mind the more layers
of pastel you put on if you're using a
brush the more the layers of pastel will
be disturbed
but it's quite nice to use as a method
of under painting prior to adding more
layers and then just a little bit of bit
more shading so there we've got the very
simple study of an apple using under
painting for the background so why not
try about yourself